>> Woodruff: IN HIS ADDRESS TO
THE NATION, PRESIDENT OBAMA LAID
OUT HIS PLAN TO DISMANTLE
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS IN IRAQ
AND SYRIA.
WE TALK WITH NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISER, SUSAN RICE.
GET A REPUBLICAN RESPONSE FROM
CONGRESSMAN BUCK MCKEON,
CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE ARMED
SERVICES COMMITTEE.
PLUS, FULL ANALYSIS OF THE
STRATEGY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY, THE
N.F.L. HIRES A FORMER F.B.I.
DIRECTOR TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF
THE RAY RICE DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
CASE.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, 13 YEARS
LATER, PRESSURE MOUNTS TO
DECLASSIFY PAGES OF THE 9/11
INVESTIGATION THAT SPELL OUT
UDL-
QAEDA HIJACKERS.
>> ONE ENTIRE SECTION, 28 PAGES,
THAT WAS TAKEN OUT ENTIRELY.
AND THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION
JUSTIFIED IT ON NATIONAL
SECURITY GROUNDS.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
PICKED UP SUPPORT AT HOME AND
ABROAD TODAY, FOR THE GROWING
BATTLE AGAINST THE ISLAMIC STATE
IN IRAQ AND SYRIA.
IT CAME THE DAY AFTER HIS
TELEVISED ADDRESS TO THE NATION.
OUR CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS.
>> IF YOU THREATEN AMERICA, YOU
WILL FIND NO SAFE HAVEN.
>> Woodruff: WITH THAT STARK
WARNING, THE PRESIDENT LAST
NIGHT ISSUED A CALL TO ARMS
AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS
BOTH FOR AMERICANS AND POTENTIAL
ALLIES.
>> AMERICA WILL BE JOINED BY A
BROAD COALITION OF PARTNERS.
ALREADY, ALLIES ARE FLYING
PLANES WITH US OVER IRAQ;
SENDING ARMS AND ASSISTANCE TO
IRAQI SECURITY FORCES AND THE
SYRIAN OPPOSITION; SHARING
INTELLIGENCE AND PROVIDING
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN
HUMANITARIAN AID.
>> Reporter: AND TODAY, IN SAUDI
ARABIA, SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY APPEALED TO ARAB AND GULF
LEADERS FOR THEIR SUPPORT AND
PARTICIPATION IN THE EFFORT.
>> THIS IS A MOMENT, WHICH IS
ONE OF THOSE RARE OPPORTUNITIES
IN HISTORY, WHERE LEADERS MAKING
THE RIGHT CHOICES, CAN ACTUALLY
BEND THE ARC OF HISTORY IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION.
IN THE GOALS-- DIRECTION OF THE
GOALS THAT WE SHARE.
PEACE AND PROSPERITY AND
SECURITY FOR ALL.
>> Reporter: THE SAUDIS AND
OTHER ARAB STATES PLEDGED TO
STOP THE FLOW OF FOREIGN
FIGHTERS AND FUNDING TO THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP.
THEY ALSO TALKED OF JOINING A
MILITARY CAMPAIGN AS
APPROPRIATE.
IN SYRIA, REACTION TO PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S ADDRESS WAS MIXED.
THE WESTERN-BACKED SYRIAN
NATIONAL COALITION WELCOMED THE
PROSPECT OF EXPANDING U.S. AIR
STRIKES INTO SYRIA EVEN THOUGH
THEY AREN'T TO BE DIRECTED
AGAINST THEIR NUMBER ONE TARGET,
BASHAR ASSAD'S GOVERNMENT.
BUT A SYRIAN GOVERNMENT MINISTER
WARNED AGAINST ANY ACTION
WITHOUT SYRIA'S CONSENT.
>> ( translated ): ANY ACTION OF
ANY TYPE WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF
SYRIAN GOVERNMENT IS AN
AGGRESSION AGAINST SYRIA.
HENCE THERE IS NO POSSIBILITY OF
TALKING ABOUT THE SYRIAN
GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE TO ANY
AGGRESSION AGAINST SYRIA UNLESS
IT HAPPENS.
BUT IN INTERNATIONAL LAW AND
POLITICAL TERMS THERE MUST BE A
COOPERATION WITH SYRIA AND
COORDINATION WITH SYRIA AND
THERE MUST BE A SYRIAN APPROVAL
OF ANY ACTION WHETHER IT IS
MILITARY OR NOT.
>> Reporter: THE RUSSIAN FOREIGN
MINISTRY WENT FURTHER, SAYING AN
AIR CAMPAIGN OVER SYRIA WOULD
HAVE TO HAVE U.N. APPROVAL.
>> THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES HAS CLEARLY DECLARED THE
POSSIBILITY OF US MILITARY AIR-
STRIKES ON THE POSITIONS OF
ISLAMIC STATE ON THE TERRITORY
OF THE SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF THE
LEGITIMATE GOVERNMENT.
SUCH AN ACTION WITHOUT A
CORRESPONDING U.N. SECURITY
COUNCIL DECISION WOULD BE AN ACT
OF AGGRESSION.
>> Reporter: BACK IN WASHINGTON,
PRESIDENT OBAMA FOCUSED ON
WINNING CONGRESSIONAL SUPPORT.
LAST NIGHT HE SAID HE HAS ALL
THE AUTHORITY NEEDED FOR BEEFED-
UP AIRSTRIKES.
BUT HE URGED CONGRESS TO APPROVE
AN OVERT PROGRAM TO UPGRADE AND
PROFESSIONALIZE THE MODERATE
REBEL FACTIONS IN SYRIA FACING
ISLAMIC STATE PRESSURE.
>> WE HAVE RAMPED UP OUR
MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO THE
SYRIAN OPPOSITION.
TONIGHT, I AGAIN CALL ON
CONGRESS TO GIVE US ADDITIONAL
AUTHORITIES AND RESOURCES TO
TRAIN AND EQUIP THESE FIGHTERS.
>> Reporter: FOR THE MOST PART,
REPUBLICAN AND DEMOCRATIC
LEADERS VOICED INITIAL SUPPORT.
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER HARRY
REID:
>> WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS MAKE
SURE THAT WE CAN TAKE CARE OF
WHAT WE NEED TO DO AND THAT IS
TRAIN AND EQUIP THE REBELS AND
MAKE SURE THAT WE DON'T DO
ANYTHING THAT IS RASH.
WE HAVE TO BE VERY CALM AND
DELIBERATE, AND WE AS A COUNTRY
HAVE TO PULL TOGETHER ON THIS.
>> Reporter: HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN
BOEHNER LIKEWISE CALLED FOR
GIVING THE PRESIDENT WHAT HE'S
ASKING FOR.
AT THE SAME TIME, HE SAID MANY
REPUBLICANS HAVE DOUBTS ABOUT
THE STRATEGY AGAINST THE ISLAMIC
STATE GROUP, ALSO KNOWN AS ISIL.
>> I'M NOT SURE WE'RE DOING ALL
THAT WE CAN DO TO DEFEAT THIS
TERRORIST THREAT, AND IF OUR
GOAL IS TO ELIMINATE ISIL, THERE
IS A LOT OF DOUBT WHETHER THE
PLAN THAT WAS OUTLINED BY THE
PRESIDENT LAST NIGHT IS ENOUGH
TO ACCOMPLISH THAT MISSION.
>> Reporter: OTHER REPUBLICANS
SAID THEY STILL BELIEVE IT WILL
TAKE U.S. COMBAT TROOPS TO
DEFEAT THE MILITANTS SOMETHING
THE PRESIDENT SAID LAST NIGHT HE
WILL NOT AUTHORIZE.
WE'LL HEAR THE PERSPECTIVES OF
THE WHITE HOUSE AND A TOP HOUSE
REPUBLICAN ON ALL OF THIS RIGHT
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Ifill: IN OTHER NEWS TODAY,
THE NATION MARKED THE 13th
ANNIVERSARY OF THE 9/11 ATTACKS
AND HONORED THE NEARLY 3,000
PEOPLE KILLED THAT DAY.
IN WASHINGTON, PRESIDENT OBAMA
LED A MOMENT OF SILENCE AT THE
WHITE HOUSE THEN JOINED DEFENSE
SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL AND
MILITARY LEADERS AT THE
PENTAGON.
>> 13 YEARS AFTER SMALL MINDS
CONSPIRED TO BREAK US, AMERICA
STANDS TALL AND AMERICA STANDS
PROUD.
AND GUIDED BY THE VALUES THAT
SUSTAIN US, WE WILL ONLY GROW
STRONGER.
GENERATIONS FROM NOW, NO MATTER
THE TRIAL, NO MATTER THE
CHALLENGE, AMERICA WILL ALWAYS